The following is a conversation with Joe Rogan, his second time on the
podcast. He has inspired me for many years with his conversations to be a
better and kinder person and has now been doing so as a friend. There's no one
I would rather talk to on this 300th episode of this podcast on the 4th
of July, both the anniversary of this country's Declaration of Independence
and the anniversary of my immigrating here to the United States. A silly kid
who couldn't speak English, who could never imagine that he would be so damn
lucky as to live the life I've lived, and to feel the love I've felt from the
amazing people along the way. From the bottom of my heart, thank you. I love you
all. This is the Lex Friedman podcast. To support it, please check out our
sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, here's Joe Rogan.
Charles Bukowski said something in a poem called Style About Art. He defined
art saying, style is the answer to everything. A fresh way to approach adult
or dangerous thing. To do a dull thing with style is preferable to doing a
dangerous thing without it. To do a dangerous thing with style is what I
call art. What do you think he meant by that? Do you agree with this? A dangerous
thing with style is art. He said both fighting can be art, boxing can be art,
loving can be art. Have you ever made love and it was art? No, okay, I'm not asking.
Every time, bro. Opening a can of sardines can be art. I think there's something to that.
Yeah, I think I think I call the way people live life art. Like I wrote a
forward to my friend Cameron Haynes's book and which is right now the number
one selling audio book in the world. And one of the things that I said was
that practice is an art that very few people appreciate and it's the art of
the maximized life and that the discipline that he displays in his
life and through his practices and all the things that he does, it's so difficult
to live the way he lives. That for someone like me who understands it and knows
what he's doing and appreciates it and appreciates how insanely difficult it
is to have a full time job and run ultra marathons, get up at four o clock in
the morning, run a full marathon before work. Like that's the kind of shit that
he does when he's training for these 240 mile runs all at the same time
being like a father, a husband, having this full time job, also being the best
bow hunter on earth, lifting weights. It's like how does a person do this?
So in a way discipline is art too. Yes, it discipline is art. Yeah, I think it is
because it's beautiful for me to see when I see someone who's really truly
disciplined, who like a David Goggins, someone who just like truly maximizes
the grind. I feel like there's an art to that and there's an art to kindness.
Like there's people that are really kind and really sweet and when I'm around
them it's beautiful. It's like there's an art to them. No matter what. Yeah. They
still, they got, you know, the world can throw a bunch of shit at you but through
all that. Some people are just great at it. Yeah. And it's a thing that you learn
how to do and it's pleasing for other people to see and that I think is where
the art is. Well, I think Bukowski also said, and I'm just a Bukowski quote
generator today. I love him. I love him very much too. He's a dark and troubled
and fascinating and a weird person, like Hunter S. Thompson. Yeah. He said what
matters most is how you walk through the fire, I think. So there's a bit of the
Cannes Haynes in that too, David Goggins in that too. What do you think he meant by that?
Well, how you walk through the fire, I mean, you can walk through the fire
complaining along the way or you can walk through the fire and create an example
for everyone else so that the trials and tribulations of their own life seem
trivial because they're comparing themselves to the way you handle things
or the way you handle things with grace and dignity and discipline can show
other people that they can handle their own life this way and there's beauty
in that. There really is and there's so much inspiration to be
gathered from other people. If you're a charitable person, if you're charitable
and compassionate and you can look at people, even people I don't like, I
try to look at the best aspects of how they live their life and
recognize those aspects, admire them, give them credit for it, there's
something that we can all get out of watching the way other people live
their lives. So I got a chance to see you walk through the fire a little bit
privately and publicly this year in January. I got to ask you about that. So
there's like generic conversations about sort of cancel culture and all those
kinds of things but as a human being, this to me is fascinating. So there's
the end word highlight video, there's the criticism of the different guests,
whatever the side is on the COVID pandemic and you, I mean there's a mass
amount of attack on you. Outside of being a public persona, outside of being
comedian, podcast, you're also a human being. So how did you survive that? How
did you sort of walk through that fire? Because you seem to do it with grace. I
use mushrooms. That was one way I did it. Yeah, yeah. Really? What's your, as Andrew
Huberman would say, what was your protocol? I took, it was probably less than a
gram every day. Every day. Yeah. And I did a lot of like really hard working out but
also, I mean, there's a great benefit to going through anything difficult and if
you're aware, like in advance and why, enduring, like anything that's gonna
happen that's very difficult and troubling. The great benefit is it gives
you an opportunity to grow, gives you an opportunity to express yourself under
pressure, to show your character, to show who you truly are and it gives you an
opportunity to see how you handle a very difficult situation. It also was
fascinating as a person that's involved in media, right? Because what we're doing
right now is media, even though, you know, it seems like podcasts seem like
we're just having a conversation, right? And they are. In a sense, it's kind of
the purest form of media because what you're doing is you're doing it
without any fanfare, you're doing it without any, there's no executives
looming over your head or network or big meetings about ratings or any of that
stuff, but it is media. But what I got to see is the wiring under the machine of
how the rest of media would try to take me out and, you know, like when CNN
would be just be playing things over and over and back and forth, it was wild to
watch. What was also wild to watch was people's responses because I gained two
million subscribers during that time. Like the podcast never got bigger. It just
kept growing. It had never been bigger than it had been like at the end of all
of it. It just made it bigger. And, you know, ultimately, when, if you've fucked
up in the past or made mistakes or done something wrong, that gives you an
opportunity to discuss those things and to say, to apologize if you feel the need
to apologize and also to just address it. And so people under that kind of
pressure, they get, it's an opportunity for them to understand how you think
about things. Honestly, how you actually honestly think about things. And there's
no more honesty that you get out of a person than when that person is under
extreme duress. You know, so I think in that sense, I mean, it's horrible to say
that it's a benefit, that it's a good thing that it happened. But it was a
benefit.
Can you see how it can break a person?
Yes.
I've gotten a chance to experience small, small attacks here and there, ones that
get to the core of things. Like even just talking to, about Russia and Ukraine, to
Stephen Cawkin or Oliver Stone, looking at different perspectives, you gain a
relative, for me, feeling like a sizable number of people who really don't like
you and say things about you that are, that may be cut deep for a reason I
don't understand why. It's just my own psychology.
Well, it's also because you can't defend yourself because they're saying it and
you're not there and you, you don't have any opportunity for a rebuttal. And if
you do have a rebuttal, you're doing it publicly and you're opening it up to the
whole world to chime in. And there's a general tendency that people have towards
negativity when they're interacting with strangers online, especially about
controversial subjects. And even if it's only 10% of the people, it's one out of
10. That's a lot. That's a lot of negativity when you're dealing with
thousands and thousands of tweets. And I think maybe I'm just a very self
critical person, but I hear their words and I probably somewhere deep inside see
the truth and the criticism in some aspect of the criticism. And that's why
it hurts. Well, it's, but it's one aspect of you, you know, but when you're
reading it, it's so it's boiled down to this one thing as if that one thing
defines you totally. Like if you've made a mistake, if you've said something that
you shouldn't have said, or if you said something and, you know, maybe you should
have considered it more carefully, giving the gravity of the situation, you
know, that that's just a part of being a person. And it's also part of being a
person where you're communicating with things publicly in real time, thinking
out loud, which is what we do. You know, it's complex. And most people don't do
it. And you're going to have these, you're going to have genuine hot takes
where people just see what you said and go, why did he say that? Fuck him. You
know, he doesn't know anything about, he doesn't live in Ukraine. He, you know,
it's like, there's, there's people that are going to have takes on that, that
way. And then there's also going to be these disingenuous people who just use
any kind of controversial topic or subject as an opportunity for them to get
clicks or views.
But that the number of those people can be quite large.
Quite large.
And so going back to, do you think it can destroy a person? Because I kind of
worry about this. And you're in many ways, but in this way, an inspiration that
it didn't seem to have destroyed you.
I kept doing shows. I kept doing stand up. I'd ignored everything. I didn't read
any of it.
So it is possible to just ignore it?
A hundred percent. Yes. Yeah. I ignored it all.
But you have like, I knew it was there.
Like your family didn't bring it up.
My family was very aware of it. My wife was aware of it.
It was a conversation like if, if your wife is aware of it, is there like a
rule, don't pretend it's not happening.
No. Just like, well, I don't, I tell her, don't ever read.
Pass the green beans.
Yeah. I don't ever let her like read negative articles to me.
You know, I don't want them. I don't care.
I go, that's a person's opinion. You take a person's opinion, you write it down.
It doesn't give it any more relevance.
Like that person, you know, could have had that opinion in silence.
They could have had it with some friends at dinner.
They don't like me, whatever. I don't want to read it.
I don't want to absorb it. I don't even know them, especially if I'm not there.
And especially if it's some biased and it's, it's not an objective opinion of me.
It's this, you know, they have a narrative and they want to stick to that
narrative and they want to write an article and they piece it all together,
make you a piece of shit.
And that's their prerogative. They're completely allowed to do that.
But I know, I shouldn't absorb that. I shouldn't take that in.
You're not supposed to be taking in the opinion of the world.
Yeah.
You're supposed to be taking in the opinion of small groups of people
that you encounter so that you get an understanding of how you make them feel.
And then maybe you say to yourself, maybe I come across too rude or maybe I come
across too insensitive or maybe, maybe I could do better in this way or that way.
That's how we sort of shape our personalities.
And that's how we, we develop our social skills.
But when the people don't know you and they have this like distorted narrative
of you and, you know, there's fucking millions of people.
There's so many people. You can't be saying, I mean,
millions of people that are like communicating about something like during
the height of the, you know, the attempt to cancel me or whatever that is.
I don't know how many people were involved in that.
People take this kind of stuff seriously.
But the problem is the false narratives take hold and then you have meetings,
you have groups, you have bills on top of each other and there's this outrage.
And then it reaches you at some point and it can just have these destructive effects.
It does.
It can. But it also sometimes doesn't.
And in my case, it didn't. It didn't work.
What lessons did you draw from that?
Mushrooms, exercise.
Mushrooms and exercise. Exercise is critical.
And so I don't think the mushrooms by themselves would have worked.
But that's the thing that I use for everything is the brutal exercise.
Like my exercise routines are horrible and because of that,
everything else is easier.
I create my own bullshit and my own bullshit is so much harder.
And it's not just that.
It's also sauna and cold plunge and these torture sessions.
They, in enduring those, when you endure those,
it makes enduring other things much easier.
And it's also an understanding of what's happening.
Like you have to know like media.
You have to understand like what the hot take,
you know, YouTube, social media, podcast,
ecosphere is doing.
Like if they're talking about, you know, Lex Friedman said this
and we have to comment on that and, you know,
Lex gets canceled in all capital letters on a YouTube clip.
And if you, you watch that, you're fucking crazy.
What are you doing? Absorbing all this negativity?
It's not good for you.
You are you. You know you.
And you know, generally, if you've made a mistake
and you know, generally, if people are upset with you.
You posted this awesome video on your Instagram
of a woman who was being interviewed in 19, late 1920s,
maybe. Yes.
Yeah. Yeah.
And she's close to a hundred years old.
So she's lived through the civil war, through World War I.
She was at the time living through the early days
of the Great Depression.
So I was just looking back, you know,
what have we as a human civilization
in recent times survived,
especially in the United States?
You're talking about the two world wars in the 20th century,
the Great Depression, the Spanish food, the pandemic
at the beginning of the 20th century.
Yeah.
What do we do in the United States?
9 11.
If you think of what are the traumatic events
that shook our world?
It's 9 11.
It's made us rethink our place in the world.
The pandemic.
Pandemic is a huge one.
One of the bigger ones, because it also accelerated
and exacerbated our anxiety,
which people have a certain level of anxiety already,
especially sedentary people.
They have a very high level of anxiety already
because I don't think they're giving their body
what it needs.
I don't think their, you know,
your body has certain requirements in terms of movement.
And when you deny your body those requirements,
I think there's like a general level of anxiety
that exists in almost everyone.
And then you have people obviously
that have mental health issues.
And that also exacerbates the anxiety.
The lockdown exacerbated the anxiety.
Losing loved ones to the pandemic exacerbated anxiety.
And then there was the division,
the different schools of thought.
The people that were never gonna get vaccinated
no matter what.
I ain't trusting it.
People that thought there was microchips in there.
People that thought that, you know, Fauci's the daemon.
And there was a lot.
And there's also like political leanings.
The right wing people tended to not wanna be vaccinated.
Whereas the left wing people for whatever reason,
all of a sudden are trusting pharmaceutical companies
like explicitly.
It was weird.
It was a weird time.
And I think over time as it gets analyzed
and we break it down,
it's gonna be one of the weirder moments
for shaping human culture.
And unfortunately for throwing gasoline on this
already burning fire of conflict
between the various factions of thought in this country.
It's already a weird time post Trump.
Like the Trump era is also going to be
one of the weirder times.
When people look back historically
about the division in this country,
he's such a polarizing figure
that so many people felt like
they could abandon their own ethics and morals
and principles just to attack him
and anybody who supports him
because he is an existential threat to democracy itself.
But don't you think it's not a cause
but maybe like a symptom?
Like it's gonna get, you said it got real weird.
Maybe it's gonna get weirder.
Yeah, I think it's gonna get weirder.
He's gonna run again.
You think he wins?
Well, he's running against a dead man.
You know, I mean, Biden shakes hands
with people that aren't even there
when he gets off stage.
I think he's seeing ghosts.
You see him on Jimmy Kimmel the other day?
Well, he was just rambling.
I mean, if he was anyone else,
if he was a Republican,
if that was Donald Trump doing that,
every fucking talk show would be screaming
for him to be off the air.
And by the way, I'm not a Trump supporter
in any way, shape, or form.
I've had the opportunity to have him on my show
more than once.
I've said no every time.
I don't wanna help him.
I'm not interested in helping him.
The night is still young, we'll see.
If I have him on, the night is still young?
You think I'll have him on?
I think you'll have him on.
Really? Why do you think that?
Because you'll have Putin on?
Yeah.
And you're competitive as fuck.
No.
I think ultimately, I mean, you've had a lot of people
that I think you may otherwise be skeptical
would I have a good conversation?
Which I think is your metric.
You don't care about politics.
So can I have a good conversation?
And I think you had people like Kanye on, for example,
and you had a great conversation with them.
I think you, I think...
Yeah, but Kanye is an artist.
But Kanye doing well or not doing well
doesn't change the course of our country.
Yeah, but you know, do you really bear the responsibility
of the course of our country based on a conversation?
I think you can revitalize and rehabilitate
someone's image in a way that is pretty shocking.
Look at the way people look at Alex Jones now.
Because Alex Jones has been on my podcast a few times.
Yeah, how do they, which direction?
The people that have watched those podcasts
think he's hilarious.
And they think that he definitely fucked up
with that whole Sandy Hook thing.
But he's right more than he's wrong.
And he's not an evil guy.
He's just a guy who's had some psychotic breaks in his life.
He's had some genuine mental health issues
that he's addressed.
He's had some serious bouts of alcoholism,
some serious bouts of, you know, substance abuse.
And they've contributed to some very poor thinking.
But if you know the guy, if you get to know him,
like I have, I've known him for more than 20 years.
And if you know him on podcasts,
you realize like he is genuinely trying to unearth
some things that are genuinely disturbing for most people.
Like this is a guy that was telling me
about Epstein's Island fucking decade ago, at least.
He was telling me about it.
I was like, what?
You're telling me there's a place
where they bring elites to compromise them
with underage girls and they film them.
Really?
Like what?
Cut the fuck out of here.
Like no, President Clinton's been there.
Everyone's been there.
Like what?
It sounds like nonsense.
And not only is it true,
but people keep getting fucking murdered for it.
Did you see that latest Clinton advisor
that got murdered about it?
Yep.
Yeah, hung with an extension cord,
shot himself in the chest, 30 miles from his house,
and they're calling it a suicide.
And now even Elon Musk is asking,
where's the clientele list?
Yeah.
We should probably see who's been to that island.
Yeah, we should probably see who's been to that island.
And there's probably more of those kind of things out there
that haven't been exposed.
Yeah, but sort of to push back,
in you had those conversations with Alex Jones,
wouldn't you be able to have the same kind of conversation
with Donald Trump?
Yeah, that's the problem.
No, it's not the problem.
You revealed that Alex Jones is a human being.
Yeah.
He's fucked up.
He has demons in his head.
He's obviously chaotic all over the place,
but there's some wisdom to the perspective
he takes on the world,
even though he is often full of shit,
he is able to predict certain things
that very few people are willing to bring up.
So isn't Trump the same way?
Fucked up person, egomaniac,
whatever personality things you can talk about,
isn't it worthwhile to lay it out?
Like who's going to,
if you listen to interviews of Trump,
who has the balls to call him out on his bullshit?
Chris Wallstead.
No, calling out somebody on their bullshit is easy
when you're just being adversarial.
But as a person who is genuinely empathetically
trying to understand,
I think you're really good at that.
Like you pulled him in.
I don't know if he would genuinely be there.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I think he would be putting on a performance.
And that's...
You don't think he can break through that
in like 30 minutes?
I'd need more time than that.
And he doesn't do any drugs.
That's the thing about Alex.
You can get Alex high, get him drunk,
and he'll start talking about
interdimensional child molesters.
Yeah.
And then you get to real Alex.
Maybe you have somebody else on as well
to introduce chaos like Alex.
No, no, no, no.
They have to be one of them.
I would have to be just me and him.
I would have to, that would be a focused thing.
I would have to like really take time with Trump.
But also I'm not well versed enough politically
to know all of the corruption that's been alleged
and to understand what the whole Russia gate stuff,
what's real, like how much of it,
it's clear that there is more than one organization
that's involved in communicating with Russia
before the 2016 election.
So it's pretty clear that the Clinton administration
was involved.
It's pretty clear that the Trump administration
had some communication with some people in Russia.
It's pretty clear that Hunter Biden
had some very suspicious dealings in Ukraine.
And there's a lot going on there, man.
And it's hard for anybody to parse.
It's really hard for anybody,
and especially to have an objective assessment
of exactly what's going on.
And then to be able to do that and broadcast it publicly.
That's quite a project.
And I think if you really want to do that correctly,
it's something that I would have to research for a long time
and to really, and I don't have that kind of time.
Not for, maybe for certain people
that you're really curious about.
Like you have that kind of time for Bob Lazar.
Yes, yes.
But maybe not for Donald Trump.
No, that's different.
Because Bob Lazar, what he's talking about,
I wanted to know, with the Bob Lazar thing,
I wanted to know, first of all, I want to be around him
and see if I could smell bullshit.
Did you?
Like, okay.
No, I didn't, man.
That was what's weird about it.
Not only did I not smell bullshit,
I went over all of his interviews.
I went, he hasn't done a lot, but he's done enough.
And he's done them over the course of 30 plus years.
And it's alarming how consistent his story is.
Which is really weird when you think about,
you're talking about back engineering alien crafts
and working on a top secret government test site
that's carved into the side of a mountain
to camouflage it from satellites.
It's such a wacky story.
But the guy really did work at Los Alamos Labs.
He really is a propulsion expert.
He really is a scientist.
Did he really work on back engineering UFOs?
I don't know.
But the way he described their motion
is exactly like what's been observed
by some of these pilots
that have these videos that they've captured.
And I just love that, like, NASA,
I've been hearing from a bunch of folks
who are legitimately like funding research
and there's people really taking the seriously
of UFO sightings, investigating them,
like adding more and more sensors to collect data
from just observing at higher definitions.
It's cool to finally see that.
And he was one of the early people,
whether he's full of shit or not,
that kind of forced people to start taking
these topics seriously.
Or at least forced people to have conversations about them
and maybe attempt to debunk them
because it seems so preposterous,
but then get sucked down the rabbit hole
and start going, hmm, maybe, we'll fucking,
it's the thing is like the Fermi paradox,
like where are they, right?
And when you take into account just the sheer raw numbers,
the vast majority of people objectively assume
that there is life out there, the vast majority.
Well, if you're really taking into account
what we understand about the universe itself,
what we understand about the concept of infinity,
and the way Neil deGrasse Tyson has explained it to me
is that not only are there life forms out there,
but there's you, you are out there.
Infinity is so large that Lex Friedman exists
and doesn't just exist,
but exists an infinite number of times,
like the amount of interactions that cells and molecules,
the same exact interactions that have happened here on earth
have happened in the exact same order,
an infinite number of times in the cosmos.
Well, first of all, it's not certain that that's true.
It's possible. It's possible.
Like Sean Carroll, you know,
especially with quantum mechanics,
based on certain interpretation of quantum mechanics,
that's very possible.
But the question is, can you access those universes?
Right, how far away are they?
The more sort of specific practical question is,
this local pocket of the universe,
our galaxy or our neighboring galaxies,
are there aliens there?
What do they look like?
Are they, so you can have this panspermia idea
where a much larger, like daddy civilization,
like rolled by and just planted a few aliens
at a similar time.
Like Prometheus.
Yes, a different, you know, throughout the galaxy.
And those are the ones we might be interacting with.
They're all kind of dumb as we are, relatively,
you know, maybe a few million years apart.
And then those are the ones we're interacting with.
And then we have a chance to actually connect with them,
communicate with them.
Or it could be like much more wide open
and you have these gigantic alien civilizations
that are expanding very, very quickly.
And the interesting thing is,
when you look up at the sky and you see the stars,
that's light from those stars.
We might not be seeing the alien civilizations
until they're already here.
Meaning, like you start expanding,
once you get really good at expanding,
you're going to be expanding very close to the speed of light.
So right now we don't see much in the sky,
but there could be one day we wake up
and it's just like everywhere and they're here.
Right, but because of the amount of time
the light takes to reach us.
Yeah, and then the thing that I've been really fascinated by
is these alternative forms of transportation
that they're discussing,
like the ability to harness wormholes
and the ability to do things
that a type three civilization is capable of.
I had Michio Kaku on my podcast recently.
Fantastic, love that guy.
He's so good at taking extremely complex concepts
and boiling them down for digestion
and saying them in a way that other people can appreciate.
And not being hesitant about saying wild,
crazy shit that's out there,
but grounded in what's actually possible.
Yeah, he's all in on this UFO phenomenon now.
He's like, now the burden of proof is to people
for people to come up with some sort of
a conventional explanation for these things.
He goes, because these things are defying
all the concepts of physics that we currently know
in terms of what our capabilities are
and propulsion systems and so many other things
that what we know about,
what current science is capable of reproducing
as far as what we know.
The problem is like these military projects
that are top secret.
Like how much money do they have?
They have a lot of money.
Like, but is it possible,
and maybe you could speak to this,
is it possible that there could be some propulsion systems
that have been developed and implemented
that are far beyond just the simple burning of rocket fuel,
pushing the fire out the back,
which forces the rocket at extreme speeds forward.
That's something that does harness gravity,
something that can distort space and time
and can make travel from one point to another
preposterously fast.
Well, not only is it possible,
I think it's likely that that kind of stuff
would be kept a secret.
Yeah.
It's just everything you see about these,
about the way either if it's contractors like Lockheed Martin
or if it's DoD, the actual departments of defense,
they operate in complete secrecy.
Just even looking at the history of the stealth fighter,
just even stealth technology was kept a secret
for a very, very long time.
And not until you're ready to use it
and need to use it, does it become public?
And not officially public,
it just is being detected out in the wild.
So there's going to be a process
where you're secretly testing it,
and that might creep up, which is maybe what we're seeing.
And then it's waiting for the next big war,
the next big reason to use the thing.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, there's definitely technologies now.
There might not be propulsion technologies,
there could be AI surveillance technologies,
there could be different kinds of stealth drones.
There could be, it could be also in cyberspace,
like cyber war weapons, all that kind of stuff.
That they're obviously going to become secret.
I'm very skeptical lately.
And the reason why I'm skeptical
is the government keeps talking about it.
The Pentagon keeps talking about it,
NASA keeps talking about it.
In which direction are you skeptical?
I'm skeptical that it's their aliens.
I think most likely it's a smoke screen.
And most likely these are some sort of
like incredibly advanced drones that they've developed
that they want to pretend don't exist.
That seems the more likely scenario,
because otherwise, my take is like,
what's the benefit of them discussing these things?
Like, what's the benefit of them
discussing these things openly?
These are, you know, the way they described it,
off world crafts, not made from this earth.
Like, why?
Why would they tell us that?
I mean, unless there's an imminent danger
of us being invaded and they want to prepare people
so they don't freak out as much.
You know, like maybe freak them out a little bit,
say that publicly, the New York Times article,
the Pentagon discussing it,
all these different things happening.
Test the waters.
Yeah.
Well, let people know that this is a thing.
Or my take is like that, I don't think they do that.
I don't think they tell us.
I think they, I think,
I think the government has a lot of contempt
for the citizens.
I really do.
I think they have contempt for our intelligence.
They have contempt for our need to know things.
And I also think they think that they are running us.
It's not, we're all in this together
and the government works for the people
and the government is of the people.
I don't think they think that way.
Yeah.
The basic idea is you can't trust the populace,
the government itself, because we're a bunch of idiots.
Yeah.
I think that's accurate.
Well, they're not wrong, but they're also idiots,
power hungry idiots.
Yeah.
I don't think they're, I don't think everyone's an idiot,
but I think there are enough idiots
that it becomes a real problem
if you're completely honest about everything you do.
And you don't want to let everybody weigh in
about things that are incredibly complex
and that most people are ignorant of.
And on top of that, there's this machine of intelligence.
I've recently been reading a lot about the KGB, about the FSB.
So several things sparked my curiosity.
So one, I'm traveling to Ukraine and to Moscow.
And because of that, I started to sort of
ask practical questions of myself,
just traveling, all those kinds of things.
So I started reading a lot about the KGB,
Jack Barsky as a book on this, I talked to him.
And you start to realize,
you probably looked into some of this,
but you just start to realize the scale
of surveillance and manipulation.
Now, a lot of them also talk about the incompetence
of those organizations, the usual bureaucracy creeps in.
But the point is, it seems like there's no line
they're not willing to cross
for the purpose of gathering intelligence,
for the purpose of controlling people
in order to gather intelligence.
Now, this is MI6, FSB, there's not much information
about the FSB or the GRU, but the KGB.
So we're always like 20 years behind or more
on the actual information.
And so I started to wonder,
so I have not officially been contacted
by any intelligence agency, but I started to wonder,
well, is there somebody I know that's doing that,
undercover CIA or undercover FSB, undercover anything?
You probably do.
Have you asked yourself this question?
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, people that have been on my podcast.
Do you think there was actually a guess that may have been?
100%.
Oh man.
I would imagine.
Would you know?
I have suspicions.
Do you care?
Is this?
I mean, it depends on what they're attempting to do, right?
Like if I felt like there was some deception involved
and they were trying to use the podcast
to manipulate a narrative in a deceptive way
to trick people into things, yeah, I would care.
But this is exactly what,
those are the kind of things they do.
They do plant narratives.
Yeah, I mean, I would imagine
if you have the number one podcast in the world
that people would wanna infiltrate that.
Yeah, there's probably meetings
in all major intelligence agencies about,
okay, what are the large platforms?
How do we spread the message?
Yeah, well, I mean, that's the thing that really emerged
when we're talking about during my cancellation,
that there's a clear,
there's no objective analysis of this in mainstream media.
There's clear narratives that they're trying to push forward
to whether it's to promote certain ideas
or to diminish the power and reach of people who are Mavericks
or people who are, you know,
who aren't connected to a system
that you can't compromise.
That's where it gets dangerous, right?
Where it gets dangerous is when someone has the largest reach
but is also completely detached
and clearly is independent
in the sense of independent thinking
has on whoever he wants.
But your mind can still be manipulated.
I guess I can.
I mean, I guess everybody can be manipulated a certain way.
I manipulate my own mind, I'm sure too.
But I also spent a lot of time thinking about what I think.
You know, I don't just accept things.
Like the UFO thing, like I was all in for a while
and now I'm like, man, something smells fishy.
And then I'm thinking like, why,
here's my problem with the UFO thing.
I want it to be real so bad.
That's my problem with it.
I'm such a sucker.
I want it to be real so bad, you know?
And that's a problem for me, because I'm aware of it.
And so then I stop and think about like,
what is my desire for UFO truth to be exposed?
Well, it's cause it's fun.
You know, that's what it is.
So I have a desire for it to be real.
And I mean, I've talked to a bunch of folks about this.
So those with connection with DOD
and they do draw lines between people
that are full of shit and people who are not.
There's a lot of people in the public sphere
that they say are full of shit.
Yeah, for sure.
And then you have to kind of tell the difference.
Yeah, CNN.
Watch them talk.
Well, I mean, even that.
You know I mean it.
Everybody knows.
On the UFO topic, there's certain individuals
that are like, okay, they're just like using this.
In fact, like people who are not full of shit
are often very quiet, which is why, you know,
even Bob Lazar is an interesting story
because he was trying to be quiet for the longest time.
Well, he was worried about his own life according to Bob
and that's why he went public with it.
And initially the first videos he did with George Knapp,
they hit his identity.
Yeah, yeah.
And then he felt like that wasn't enough
and he really needed to expose his own identity
just to protect his life, which is a great story.
You know, so you gotta go, well, that seems so juicy.
I wanna buy into it.
And that's where I get nervous.
You don't know.
You don't know who to trust in this world.
Right, exactly.
How do you figure that out?
How do you figure out who to trust in your life?
You're Joe Rogan.
A lot of people want to be close to CIA agents,
FSB agents, people that want to...
I'm friends with a former CIA agent,
Mike Baker who's been on my podcast a bunch of times.
Allegedly former.
Former.
Think about that.
He's air quotes, former.
Yeah, I don't believe he's former.
His problem sure has some connection to him.
I also believe he's a good guy,
but I gain a lot of very intelligent
and well informed insights from him
as to how things work.
And I think, I'm sure he doesn't tell me
everything about everything,
but he's told me enough where I think
I can understand things better
from talking to him about the way
the elves work under the machine.
What about friends?
How do you know if you can trust?
Well, most of my friends are old friends.
Time.
So time is the thing.
Like just going through shit together.
Yeah.
And also people that, you know,
first of all comics, like...
You can trust comics?
Yeah, comics are pretty trustworthy.
The good ones, the really good ones.
There's not that many of us.
If there's a thousand professional comics on earth,
I'd be stunned.
I don't even think there's a thousand,
like real professionals who you get booked all the time,
headline weekends at clubs and theaters and arenas.
And then there's levels to that, right?
There's like the guys who are middle acts
who kind of like barely scrape by,
and then like how many headliners are there?
How many like really funny headliners that I would say,
you know, if you Lex, you tell me
you're gonna be in Cincinnati.
Hey, this person's playing at this club.
Should I go see them?
I'm like, ah, you know, like,
how many people would I give the recommendation to?
And then how many people sell out theaters?
How many people sell out arenas?
How many people, there's not that many.
So those people like at the levels of comedy
where you've been doing standup for 20 years,
there's a certain amount of honesty
and a certain amount of understanding
of each other that we all have.
Oh, so that process of becoming a great comic
is like humbling in a way like Jiu Jitsu is humbling.
Very similar.
Like you've taken so much shit that somehow,
even if you're insane, even if you're chaotic,
even in the way, even if you're full of shit,
you lie a lot, all those kinds of things,
underneath it, there's a good human.
You could be surface bullshitter,
but on important things, you're trustworthy.
Hopefully, I mean, if you're not,
then people shy away from you.
And there are people like that too
that are really successful, but that are what I call islands.
I've talked to other comics about that.
Like you don't wanna be an island
because there's these people that aren't attached
to the rest of the community
and they're doing well on their own.
And usually they have like one opening act.
They bring with them on the road.
They've worked with forever
and they don't have comedy friends.
And those people are miserable
because they can't relate.
Sometimes fame in itself is isolating.
So you have to actually do a lot of work
and make sure you don't.
It doesn't isolate you.
Because if you become successful,
people start wanting stuff from you.
And then sometimes you wanna push them away
because of that as opposed to connect with them.
Yeah, I don't enjoy it when people want things from me.
It's not fun.
Disignore it.
Yeah, it's fucking too heavy.
They want too much.
And it's too much of a disproportionate relationship.
You know, it's too unbalanced.
Because there are people where you could tell
that they're working towards something.
They're working towards an angle
and they want to be close to you
because you will benefit them.
And then there's other people that are just,
there's not that many of us.
And so we all wanna hang out together.
Like one of the podcasts I love the most
is this podcast I do called Protect Our Parks.
It's a thing I do with Ari Shafir,
Shane Gillis and Mark Northern.
It's so fun.
Because we just get obliterated
and we talk so much shit.
Like there's conversations after that podcast where I go,
hey man, we gotta cut that part out.
Because like Shane will go too far or go too crazy,
but we're just making each other laugh and it's just fun.
And it's like that kind of camaraderie
between real comics is very precious to me.
My favorite part of that is like the non sequitur stuff
from Mark Norman.
You guys get so trashed that you don't even understand
what the hell he's talking about.
But it's funny to the listener.
Because he's still on point.
That guy is sharp.
He's so good.
He's got that Mitch Hedberg quality with us.
Well, he's such a dedicated comic.
You know, he loves comedy so much.
That's one of the things I love about him.
He's like comedy.
He gets excited.
He loves it.
It's as does Shane and as does Ari.
Yeah.
You know, they really love it.
And it's, that's so, so there's that.
Like I have friends in that way
and I have martial arts friends who are some of the,
also the thing about being humbled,
how things like Jiu Jitsu will humble you.
Martial arts friends are, they're also,
they know, they know who's been through it.
You know, they know who's,
who really has gone through the gauntlet
and emerged on the other end a better person.
Well, you said there's very few of us.
Let's have the goat discussion.
You're not gonna pick anybody,
but who are the greats of comedy?
Who's the, who's the,
who's the greatest comic of all time?
Well, I don't think there is a greatest comic of all time.
Is it Norm MacDonald?
Norm MacDonald was one of the greats for sure.
Well, by the way, actually on that topic,
what do you think about his,
I think as a person who is fascinated
by the fear of death and death,
I think it was a truly genius thing
to release a special after you're dead.
I don't know how that worked.
I haven't seen a special of you.
It's not, yeah, it's, it's called,
I think nothing special.
Which sounds like something Norm would say.
And it's basically him in front of,
I mean, I imagine he wouldn't want to edit it that way
because it's made to look nicer
than I think he probably would have preferred it.
But it's him in front of the screen,
like on a zoom call doing jokes without cold.
Really?
Yeah.
And somehow given his like dry, dark humor, it works.
Cause it's almost making fun of itself.
Almost making fun of that whole
that we were stuck, stuck alone inside.
And because he's still acting
as if he's in front of the audience.
And it's almost making fun of the fact
that this is what we're forced to do.
I mean, it's quite genius.
It's really well done.
The jokes are really good.
But it also makes you realize how important laughter
is from the audience, the energy from the audience.
Cause, but there's also an intimacy
because it's just you and him.
Because you're listening into it.
You know, there's no audience.
So that's, I don't know.
I think it's quite genius.
And he is of course, there's certain comics they're like,
not only are they funny, but they're truly unique.
And like they're, they're not in terms of friendship
and all that kind of stuff,
but in terms of comedy, they're an island.
Yeah.
It's like they, you know, Mitch Hedberg probably is that,
of course a lot of people then start to imitate them
and so on, but.
Steven Wright.
I mean, there's like people who are like, you know,
Dave Chappelle, who's like probably one of the greats.
But he's just like raw funny.
Yeah.
I don't know if he's an island.
He's just raw.
Yeah.
I know what you're saying.
An outlier, a unique individual.
Yeah. He's just great.
Norm was definitely unique in his greatness.
Like, like there's only one norm, you know,
who's got a very specific style.
Is there a reason you guys weren't,
it doesn't seem like he was, you guys were close.
I mean, I loved him.
He was great.
I always enjoyed talking to him.
We just didn't work together that often.
We weren't around each other that often.
That's all it was.
But it wasn't like, it was, I loved him though.
He was a great guy.
I had a funny story about it, Norm.
Twice, just randomly, I was on airplanes next to him.
Seated right next to him.
Just totally random.
And one time, we're on this airplane
and we're having this talk and I was like, yeah,
quit smoking.
I was smoking a lot and I just,
yeah, it's terrible, terrible, smoking's terrible for you.
And we have this great conversation.
We get off the plane
and he sprints towards a store and buys cigarettes,
like in the airport and is lighting it
on the way out the door.
And I go, I thought you quit smoking.
I was like, yeah, I did.
But all that talking about smoking
made me want to smoke again.
So before he's getting through the door of the airport,
he's lighting it up.
I can't wait.
He can't wait to get that cigarette in him.
It was, he was just so crazy and impulsive
and loved to gamble, loved gambling.
And in that way, he embodied the joke.
Like you can't even tell that certain people
just like live in a non sequitur,
ridiculous, absurd, funny way.
Yeah, that was him.
I mean. Non stop.
There was nothing artificial about Norm.
You know, that was who he was.
His brilliance was his essence.
That was who he was, you know?
But it's in terms of like the greats,
the Godfather of it all is Lenny Bruce.
I mean, I have a bunch of Lenny Bruce concert posters
at my house and photos that I have framed
and Whitney Cummings actually gave me this brilliant
photo of him when he got arrested for one of the times
when he got arrested for saying obscene jokes.
He was the most important figure in the early days
of comedy because he essentially gave birth
through the modern art form of standup comedy.
Before that, it was a bunch of guys
that were like hosting shows and they would tell jokes.
They would just like, you know,
two guys walking to a bar, that kind of stuff.
And he would talk about social issues.
You know, he would talk about life.
He would talk about language.
He would talk about laws.
And it was just, he was the very first guy
who did modern standup.
And what's fascinating is if you go
and you try to watch it,
if you try to watch Lenny Bruce today, it doesn't work
because society has evolved.
Like in many ways, art is a window,
especially like pop culture or modern,
you know, at the time, culture, art that discusses culture
is a window into that time period.
It's a little bit of a time machine.
So you get to like, you have to put yourself,
like what was it like to be in 1963?
Like what was he, in 1963, what was this like
to hear him say this?
And the civilization that existed in 1963,
although it looked pretty similar,
they're all driving cars and they're all wearing suits
and they're all, the old team's normal.
That's a, it's a different world.
And the things that he was saying that are so taboo
are so normal today, that they're not shocking.
And it's not, not that good.
It's not that funny.
Yeah, you have to do the same kind of stuff for,
like there's a, D.H. Lawrence has a book called
Lady, Shadowy's Lover.
And I know it sounds ridiculous,
but it was one of the early books,
I believe it, over a century ago,
that was very controversial for its sexual content.
It's sort of one of the great books
because it dared to actually talk about
a woman cheating on her husband
and like, and do so in the highest form.
And the same thing with Gulag Archipelago,
talking about some of the darkest aspects of human history
right when all of that stuff is forbidden,
when it's banned.
Because now it's like, yes, we all know this history,
but when in the middle of it,
when you're risking your own life,
when you're risking your book being banned or burned,
or you being imprisoned, that's what it matters,
like taking that risk.
Yeah, and no one took that risk more than Lenny Bruce.
Lenny Bruce was arrested many, many times.
And ultimately, he wound up costing him his life.
I mean, he died on the bathroom floor shooting heroin
and trying to cope with all the lawsuits
that he was going through.
I mean, this guy was constantly being arrested
and constantly going through lawsuits.
And then his comedy deteriorated horribly.
There's some footage of him towards the end of his career
where he essentially would go on stage with legal papers
and read from the legal papers about his case.
From then, it's Richard Pryor.
From him, then the next great is Richard Pryor.
And he had the most profound impact on me when I was a kid.
When I was 15 years old, my parents took me to sea
live at the Sunset Strip,
which is a Richard Pryor's concert film.
And I remember very distinctly being in that audience
and laughing and looking around at all the people
in the audience who were falling out of their chairs,
just dying, laughing, just swaying back and forth.
And I was laughing hard too.
And I was like, my God, this guy's doing this just by talking.
And I thought of all the great movies that I'd seen
that I loved that were hilarious comedy movies.
And I was like, nothing that I've ever seen
is as funny as this.
And all he's doing is talking.
And that planted a seed in my head
for my love of stand up comedy
and my curiosity about the art form.
And that's what got me interested in watching on television
and then ultimately going to open mic nights
and then eventually doing it.
I've actually been going to open mics a lot recently,
just listening for psychological examinations of people.
No, it's actually really inspiring to me to see people
that some are funny, some are not so funny,
unapologetically trying, putting it all out there night
after night, like eating shit.
My favorite is when you're talking about
like five people in the audience
and the jokes are just not landing.
And they still, I don't know,
it feels like even just empathetically,
there's few things as difficult as that.
It's hard.
I still remember those days.
Many comics will say this,
and I think Dane Cook was the first person
I heard say it publicly,
that if he ever had to go back and do it again,
like from scratch, doesn't think he could do it,
doesn't think he could endure the struggle
of open mic to, you know, ultimately to success.
And the numbers of people that try it
and fail versus try and succeed are off the charts.
I don't know if there's any other art form
that has such a low rate of success.
Because it's psychological, it's torture.
It is torture, and it's also not something you can learn.
Like, here's the thing, like, if you play guitar,
you can learn to play guitar.
Someone can teach you the chords,
and if you do it, you could do all along the watch tower,
you could play it.
You can't teach someone how to do comedy.
You think it's your funny or not,
or can you still figure it out?
Like, can you still learn?
Yeah, you can figure it out, yeah.
Can you start being unfunny and become funny?
Yes, it's possible.
It's not easy, though.
You're gonna have to eat a lot of shit.
You're gonna have to eat a lot of shit,
and you're gonna have to examine why you're not funny.
And you're gonna have to spend a lot of time
with uncomfortable thoughts and try to figure out
what it is, like, what's missing?
Like, you know, could you edit your stuff
and make it better?
Maybe you need to do drugs.
Maybe you need to get involved in psychedelic drugs
and rethink the way you interface with reality itself.
Maybe you need your heart broken.
Maybe you need to be in love.
Maybe, there's a lot of maybes there.
Like, maybe you just need more life experience.
But, you know, when I started comedy, I was 21,
and I was a moron.
I had no information.
You know, I could do impressions of people,
and I could talk about sex.
Those are the things that I was interested in back then.
I mean, if I was talking philosophically,
I didn't have a philosophy.
I didn't have a unique perspective on life.
I hadn't experienced much.
So every time you bomb,
it forces you to introspect, to ask questions to yourself,
and then that's how you actually develop a philosophy.
Yeah.
Or what you actually believe.
You learn through doing.
And I think you could say that about podcasting too.
You know, I'm certainly way better at having conversations
than I ever was when I first started doing comedy.
Or, excuse me, when I first started doing podcasts.
You should learn to stick with a kid,
because one day you'll be able to interview Donald Trump.
You'd be mad enough to handle that conversation.
How hard is it to do?
Because I've been really curious
that it's been on my bucket list because I'm terrified.
I want to do everything I'm terrified of.
Do you want to do stand up?
No.
But I do want to do like one five minute open mic.
Why don't you do kill Tony?
How hard is it to do five minutes, would you say?
It's hard.
Well, it depends on how long you've been thinking
about doing comedy.
It depends on how you look at things.
And also depends on your style of comedy.
Like the most difficult style of comedy is like,
I think like Stephen Wright's style
is probably the most difficult style of comedy,
complete non sequiturs.
One subject doesn't lead into the next.
There's no flow to it.
It's just, I noticed this, I noticed that.
And then there's this, and then there's that.
And that's hard to memorize.
And it's really hard to piece together
an hour of non sequiturs.
But it's easier because you can rely on the joke.
It sits more with the joke.
Like whether you're funny or not
is on the actual material versus like the timing
and the energy to dance with the audience, right?
Cause like, if you don't have the raw jokes
like Stephen Wright does or Mitch Hedberg,
then you have to, it's all about the delivery.
Yeah.
And yeah, they either kill or they bomb.
Is it random?
Whether they kill or bomb?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you're essentially a different person
every day of your life.
You know, you're similar, but you're more tired.
You're more rested.
You're exhausted.
You're refreshed.
You have vitamins and food, nourishment in your system.
You just get your heart broken.
You haven't slept in days.
You're a different person all the time.
And you go onto that stage.
You're in the neighborhood of who Lex Friedman is.
You're in the Lex Friedman neighborhood.
Which Lex Friedman am I gonna get?
Yeah.
Energy levels.
It depends.
It all depends.
But oh, the other thing with Kiltoni is it's videotaped.
Yes.
So you eating shit is on there forever.
Forever.
The world can see it.
But it's one of the most important shows in comedy.
It's the most important show in comedy.
Because first of all, it establishes stand up
in a sense that like for the open micers,
for the people that are starting it out,
it establishes that the most important thing is to be funny.
Like this is what the art form is all about.
And there's a lot of insecurity attached to that
and a lot of fears.
And so to alleviate some of those insecurities and fears,
people will decide that the message is more important.
And they'll pretend that, you know, like you have to have,
like you have to be socially aware
that you have to promote things
that are positive in your comedy, which is bullshit.
The people that say that, they're all bad.
They're all bad at comedy.
And that's where the insecurity is.
It's like they can't just kill.
So they have to pretend that they're supposed
to be socially aware.
And they're being socially aware
as an important part into society.
Like let me explain something really clearly.
It's not a fucking person on earth
who's ever changed their life because of a joke.
That's not what they're there for.
They're there for jokes.
The people that say that,
they say that socially important comedy
is the only comedy that's necessary.
The only comedy that you have to do.
That is just because they suck.
Yeah.
That is it.
It's like the cop out is that
they can't do the real comedy.
They can't crush.
It's not like someone goes from being,
you know, take a like Shane Gillis,
one of the best comics up and coming right now.
He's fucking fantastic.
I can't recommend enough seeing that guy live.
I worked with him in Irvine
and I hadn't seen like his whole set.
I was crying.
I mean, he's so good.
I heard he's a racist.
So I haven't listened to any of his material, no.
He's so good.
And his comedy is just all,
just trying to be as funny as possible.
There's not a chance in hell
that guy's just gonna go woke
and he's just gonna start promoting some sort of,
you know, socially conscious agenda
that's, you know, facetious and just a bunch of nonsense
that he's trying to elevate his own personal brand
and virtue signal.
That's not gonna happen.
The thing about Kill Tony is in that,
because you only have one minute and because it's live
and because you don't want Tony shitting on you,
everybody else shitting on,
everybody's just gearing up to try to be as funny as possible.
And no one cares if you are gay or straight
or Asian or black or trans or non binary.
Nobody gives a fuck.
Are you funny?
If you're funny, you're in and everybody loves you.
You could be 80, you could be 20.
Nobody gives a shit.
You could be a woman or a man or ambiguous.
Nobody fucking cares.
Are you funny?
And that's the most important thing
for a community of comedy to really promote comedy.
Just funny.
Just be funny.
And so in that sense,
Kill Tony is a real cornerstone of comedy.
It's a reminder what comedy is supposed to be about.
That said, even the funniest stuff
has underneath it some wisdom that comes out of it,
but that's not the primary goal of it.
Yeah, I mean, it might be inspiring and fun.
Oh, Tim Dillon's a great example of that.
Yeah, he's got some amazing insights in his comedy,
but it's still, it's fucking comedy.
It's all about the funny.
Yeah, it's all of the funny.
He's the best at doing that,
especially in a podcast form,
about weaving like really important points
in with hilarious, obviously just jokes.
Let me ask you, speaking of Tim Dillon.
A chaotic fucked up individual.
Can we go to your childhood real quick?
A brief stroll.
So your mom and dad split up when you were five
from a from a younging perspective.
If you look at your subconscious,
what impact do you think that had on you
in forming who you are as a man, as a human being?
Well, at the time, I thought that my father was like a hero.
You know, he was my dad.
I think every kid thinks like that about his dad.
His dad is like, your dad's your protector.
Your dad is like the coolest guy in the world.
That's what you like.
Yeah, yeah, everybody wants to be like their dad,
especially if your dad is like an imposing figure.
I remember one time me and my cousin got in a fight
over nothing.
It was like over who's tougher, King Kong or Godzilla.
Yeah, over nothing.
That's an important, but yeah.
And he said actual fight, actual fight.
Oh, I punched him in the face.
And this is when you were like five?
Yeah, yeah.
And so...
Which side were you on?
King Kong, okay.
I was wrong.
Godzilla's like way bigger.
Godzilla's 500 feet tall
and he shoots fire out of his mouth.
Yeah.
Yeah, are you sure?
I mean, there's an argument to be made.
It's not all about size, right?
No, there's no argument to be made.
500 feet tall versus 50 feet tall.
One's a gigantic dinosaur.
One is a stupid monkey who gets shot down by a plane.
You don't think a monkey can't ride?
You can't kill Godzilla.
Godzilla, like take him back?
No.
You can't kill Godzilla with a plane.
Rrrr.
Da, da, da, da, da.
Like that shit when working Godzilla,
killed King Kong.
King Kong and the new movies kept growing.
He's getting bigger and bigger.
Got to the point where he's as big as Godzilla.
It just feels like King Kong is stronger.
Oh, stop.
Backtake, backtake.
Immediate backtake.
You don't think there's a backtake?
There's a different.
If he's the same size.
Human weapons and two animals going at it
of a different size.
You don't think there's, in the jungle,
a smaller animal can take on a bigger animal.
Like a monkey versus a, let's see, a lion.
Monkey versus a bear.
What?
Who wins?
A monkey versus a bear?
Not a monkey.
What's the strongest ape?
A gorilla?
No, but gorilla, see, okay.
Gorilla can't do backtakes.
I'm thinking of like a smaller, you know what I'm saying?
Cause in Jiu Jitsu, you see this all the time.
Do you remember that scene in Talladega Nights?
Do you know Talladega Nights where the little boys
talking to his grandpa, I'll be all over you
like a spider monkey?
Exactly, spider monkey.
I was thinking, all right.
There's some animals.
Like here's a better example, a Wolverine.
Wolverines chase wolves and bears off of their kills.
And they're not very big at all.
They're just so ferocious and they're so durable.
Like it's very hard to kill a Wolverine.
Yeah.
And there's videos of like cats, like not actual,
like domestic cats or domestic dogs
starting shit with much larger animals.
Yeah.
And if they're ferocious enough.
Well pit bulls are a great example of that.
Pit bulls are small, like real game bread pit bulls
are like 35, 45 pounds.
And they'll kill much larger dogs.
Anyway, you were on King Kong's side.
Yeah, so.
You can shit out of your cousin.
I remember he said to me,
like I thought it was in like real trouble.
Cause I remember my cousin's mom was yelling at me
and it was like, you monster, all this crazy shit.
So my dad got me alone and he said,
tell me what happened.
And I told him, you know, we got in a fight.
We were arguing or King Kong Godzilla.
And I punched him in the face and he goes, did you cry?
I go, no, he goes, good, don't ever cry.
And I remember that like, whoa, okay.
And I remember thinking, all right,
I'm just going to start punching people because like,
obviously my dad thinks it's a good idea
if I go running around punching people
as long as I don't cry.
Like I remember certain things about, you know,
and also like this is it again,
like we're talking about watching Lenny Bruce
in getting a timeline of what the world was like back then.
This was a different world, you know, in 1970,
this would've been 1972.
It's a different world back then, man,
like a really different world.
It's some of that.
So Carl Jung talked about the shadow.
It's the unconscious where you have dark stuff
and oftentimes you use to project.
There's stuff that you're very self critical about yourself,
but because it's in your unconscious,
you use it to project onto others.
You see it as flaws in others.
And that's a good way to, like whatever,
I guess a quote, like everything that irritates us
about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.
So that's a nice way to investigate yourself.
Like something that pisses you off.
You start asking questions of your own mind
and that's how you bring it to the surface.
But anyway, from that, those are formative years.
From that time, is there still stuff in your unconscious
you think you haven't examined, some dark shit?
I don't think so.
I don't, I'm not aware if it is, cause I've looked,
you know, like if someone, you know, someone says,
you know, I left something over your house,
like where'd you leave it?
I don't know, like, all right, I'll go look.
Yeah.
I'll get a real thorough looking.
But I'm pretty sure.
Pretty sure it's not there.
Yeah.
I don't know, I think I've looked.
I mean, it certainly hadn't, I think the positive effect
also was compounded by the fact that when my mother
married my stepdad, who's a great guy,
who was a hippie, very different, we moved around a lot.
And so the bad thing about that was I didn't really develop
longterm friends.
The good thing about that was that I was forced
to develop my own opinions about things.
Instead of adopting an opinion of the neighborhood
and the group about anything, I was forced to form
my own thoughts and opinions about almost everything.
And so it made me much more of an independent thinker.
So that on top of the fact that, you know, losing,
you know, my quote unquote hero very early on,
and then having to form my own opinions about things,
it left me with a very, very independent streak,
you know, in terms of,
and if I hadn't done the things that I got interested in,
martial arts and then comedy,
if I hadn't gotten interested in those things,
I would have been fucked,
because I was just too independent for normal jobs.
I was too independent for school.
I just didn't want to listen to people.
I was too feral.
I just didn't want to sit still.
If I was with the wrong parents, especially today,
I most certainly would have been medicated.
Yeah, there's so many possible trajectories
you can imagine where you would have not been
the person you are today.
Oh yeah.
This is probably one of the best possible trajectories
you're living.
This particular storyline you're living through
is one of the better ones.
This timeline is as good as it gets
for someone like me.
Is there advice you can give to people,
to young kids that are living through a shitty situation
of any sort, a tough life?
Find a thing you like.
Try to find a thing that you really enjoy.
Try to find a thing that you're passionate about.
Like an activity.
Yes, for me, early on it was drawing.
It was illustrations.
It was comic books.
I wanted to be a comic book illustrator.
And then it went from comic book drawing
and illustrations to martial arts.
So, but it was just another thing
that I was very, very passionate about.
And that was my vehicle out of my dilemma.
That was my vehicle out of my own anxiety and trauma
and my own issues and insecurities and find something.
Find a thing that you genuinely enjoy
because getting good at things you genuinely enjoy
is extremely beneficial for young people.
Because it lets you know that everybody thinks
they're a loser.
Every young person thinks they're a loser.
At least a young person in the situation I was at.
I didn't know I wasn't a loser until I started winning.
Until I started doing martial arts.
Martial arts taught me that I could get better at stuff.
That it wasn't, I wasn't really a loser.
I just was someone who was in a fucked up situation.
But you could channel all that energy
that you have as a young person into something
and get better at it.
And then all of a sudden people admired me.
I was like, this is crazy.
So I went from being someone who was incredibly insecure
and basically a failure to someone who was really successful
at this one thing that was very dangerous
that other people were scared of.
And that gave me immense confidence.
And also a real understanding of the direct correlation
between hard work and success.
And a kind of understanding that you're not a loser.
Right.
There is some diamond in the rough.
Yeah. And also an understanding
that you can't listen to people.
Cause even my parents didn't want me to do martial arts.
They didn't want me to fight.
They didn't want me to just stand up.
There's like, you have to understand like who you are.
And then in the face of other people's either criticism
or lack of faith in your ability to succeed,
you push through and there's great benefit in that.
And then you realize that you can kind of apply that
to other things in life.
You can apply that to critics.
You can apply that to social media commentators.
You can apply that to a lot of things.
Okay. What about young people in their fifties?
Can you give advice to, like imagine you're sitting back
probably still here in Texas in your nineties looking back.
What advice would that guy give to you today?
Or like people that have done some shit in their fifties,
you've gone through a hell of a life.
There's potentially some incentive to settle down.
You got a great family to relax.
But maybe there's some incentive to still do epic shit.
Still be David Goggins running in the middle
of the desert screaming shit into a camera.
If you're David Goggins, you have to be David Goggins.
I don't think there's a path for that guy
that exists at this stage of his life other than that.
Do you think he'll be 70 and still screaming?
Yes. Okay.
100%.
If David and I are alive, we're both 70.
He's going to call me up and say,
stay hard motherfucker, guaranteed, guaranteed.
So lean into whatever the fuck you are at this point.
Well, if you're enjoying it,
but if you're not enjoying it, rethink your life.
Try to figure out why you're not enjoying it.
You still think it's possible to shift things in your fifties?
Yeah. If you're alive, you can get better.
No matter what?
Yeah, no matter what.
If you're alive, you can shift things.
I mean, if you're 90 years old and you have a month to live,
you can apologize for the things you think you did wrong
and maybe sort of reconcile and shape relationships
that you have with the people that are around you better
so that they feel differently about you after you're gone.
Yeah. I always love people in their 70s
who are like getting back into dating or something like that.
Yeah.
I was watching a video about a woman who's in her 60s
who just started powerlifting.
Nice.
Yeah.
And same with Jiu Jitsu.
You see people get into Jiu Jitsu like a white belt.
A white belt that's like 70.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
There's a lot of, if you're alive,
you can get better at stuff.
And I don't think people are happy
if they don't have puzzles and complex tasks
and things that are interesting to them,
whether it's an art project
or whether it's learning something completely new
like standup comedy.
Like doing things that are difficult is,
it's as much of a nourishment of the mind
as food is a nourishment of the body.
I think you need things that are puzzling to you
where you have to find your own human potential
in the difficulty of the task
and work your way through things, at least for me.
For me, I mean, I can only speak for me
because I'm the only life that I've ever lived
that I'm aware of.
And in my life, that has been 100% constant.
I am a very happy person
and I have never had a moment
where I'm not doing difficult shit ever.
What matters most is how well you walk through the fires.
You just keep starting fires for yourself to walk through.
Well, they don't necessarily have to be fires, right?
Because fires are like kind of out of control.
Lukewarm tasks.
The surfaces.
Tasks, give yourself something,
an arduous, difficult task where you're challenged.
Challenged mentally and challenged physically.
One of the great things about being challenged physically
is it's also mental.
The people that don't understand that
have never really been challenged physically.
People that think that physical challenges
are just physical.
It's just brute grunt work.
It's not.
It's emotional intelligence.
It's understanding your desired quit
and conquering your inner bitch.
All that stuff is mental.
It's playing out inside your head.
And there's a mental strength that you acquire from that
that you can apply to intellectual pursuits.
And the people that don't think that
are the people that haven't attempted them.
And there's an arrogance to people
that only pursue intellectual exercises.
Only pursue intellectual things.
And don't pursue anything physical.
That the physical stuff is base.
It's grunt work.
It's primal.
It's not necessary.
I don't think that's accurate.
I don't think that they're,
I mean, obviously these people like Stephen Hawking's
who have no opportunity to do anything physical, right?
His physical dilemma is keeping us,
or was keeping his heart beating.
But for most people,
I think you can really benefit from physical struggle.
And you benefit from it in a mental way.
And I think that is overlooked.
That's unfortunately overlooked by academics
and intellectuals who,
they make excuses for why they're fat and lazy or scrawny.
What they don't need to be,
it's not even about the fat or all of that.
It's like literally,
there's something about the physical challenge
that's really good for you,
especially if you're academic,
especially if you do intellectual types though.
There's this great roboticist at MIT, Russ Tedrick.
He runs barefoot to and from MIT every day.
I love it.
Like seven to 10 miles each way.
Barefoot.
He studies legged locomotion, legged robots.
But for him, it's also interesting
how the human body moves.
He sees the beauty in all movement.
What do his feet look like?
You know, calloused.
Destroyed, right?
No, just calloused.
They're nice.
They form a nice,
it's not like I gave them a foot massage.
But I mean, they look,
and I don't have a foot fetish,
so I'm not able to correctly evaluate another man's feet.
I apologize for this,
but they don't look fucked up.
Does he run on concrete?
Yeah, he runs all surfaces.
And he does everything completely barefoot?
The running part at work.
So one of the things he has to do is fit into society,
which means he has to change clothes and appear normal.
Right.
So does he wear like zero shoes?
You know, those barefoot type shoes?
No, because that's like very happy,
woky type of thing.
No, like he doesn't, he's barefoot when he's running,
and then he wears like normal looking stuff,
like dress shoes.
How did he work his way up to running barefoot?
So he was significantly overweight.
And his advisor, this other famous person at MIT,
who was a roboticist, took his own life.
And that made him,
that made Russ face his own mortality, I think.
I mean, you start to ask big questions
about your wellbeing, like,
holy shit, that's where I can end at any moment.
And so he started taking his sort of physical wellbeing
seriously, but as a result of that,
not that he become like shredded,
but he's also discovered the intellectual value,
the humbling value of physical exercise.
He's not preachy about it all.
I don't think I actually rarely hear him advise it to anyone.
He just does it as a, almost like meditation
or something like that.
It's definitely a form of meditation,
and you can attest to that, right?
You do quite a bit of running.
There's a thing about a,
it kind of almost like a mantra gets formed
and you get into it.
No, it's great here in the Austin heat, 100 degree weather.
That tests you.
You know what I love to do outside?
Pull sleds.
That's my thing.
I love to pull sleds outside.
In the heat.
Yeah, did it today.
Yeah.
I love it.
So you're also, your wife is incredible.
You're in a relationship.
What, you're married, you have a great family.
What advice would you give to me
until there's like me who are dumb fucks
and I have not found a relationship?
Well, you're a great guy.
So this definitely doesn't necessarily apply to you,
but be someone who someone would want
to be in a relationship with.
There's a lot of people out there
that want a great partner.
They want someone in a relationship,
but why would someone want to be in a relationship with you?
Maybe you bicker a lot.
Maybe you're jealous.
Maybe you lie.
Maybe you, maybe you're cruel.
Maybe you don't have a sense of humor.
Maybe you're not kind.
Like what is it about you
that people would not enjoy being around
or the people avoid?
Fix that.
Well, this applies to me as well.
Like you said something with Cam Haynes,
one of the things you admire is that the discipline
takes to sort of juggle so many things and do it successfully.
I'm not sure I'm very good at that.
So juggling all this hard work and then also a relationship.
Also relationship, also family,
all these kinds of priorities.
I mean, that requires having your shit together.
It does.
It's a different thing,
but it's also you gotta find the right person.
There's a lot of people who settle for sexy.
They settle for hot.
They settle for the wrong person.
Like you can get hot and nice.
They're out there, but don't get hot and mean.
Hot and mean is not fun.
Then you get Amber Heard.
Yeah, and then you get hot and dry.
Yeah, yeah.
You can be deceived by perfect symmetry.
So you don't think it's a good idea
to record your partner?
I think you should record all conversations.
The CIA is doing it no matter what.
I assume that every conversation I have is recorded
because I'm pretty sure it is.
Even when we had dinner with Alex Jones,
he was recording.
Yeah.
I still remember that.
I didn't know they know that I was recording.
He might be funny if he is the CIA player.
He could be.
Could be.
That'd be the ultimate joke.
My advice about relationships is be somebody
and then also find someone who you can grow with.
You don't want to be with someone
who doesn't share your values.
You don't want to be with someone who makes excuses.
You don't want to be with someone who's lazy or who's spiteful.
You want to be with someone who's genuinely kind.
That's one of the things that I really love about my wife,
and she's very smart, and she works hard.
She's a dedicated, disciplined person,
but she's also really nice.
That's one of the things I like the most about her.
She's so nice.
She's always smiling.
And that energy is great.
Yeah, I mean, you've seen us together.
You've hung around with us.
She's fun.
Yeah, she's a lot of fun.
Yeah, she makes you just feel great to be alive.
It's good to have people like that around you.
She's happy.
She's a happy person.
She's happy to be around.
That's the kind of people that you could have in your life
as friends and as coworkers and as lovers and wives
and husbands.
You can find those people.
They're real.
And when you find those people, your life is better.
To have a good tribe is very important,
to have a good tribe of people.
And I think if there's anything that I'm very, very
fortunate about, it's the people that I'm around.
I have very good friends, and one of which is you.
It's so valuable to have quality people around you,
because it makes you want to do better,
because you admire the hard work that these people put in,
like Cam Haines or Goggins or many of my friends.
And people that are generous and people that are curious
and people that are honest, they inspire you to do the same.
And it's extremely valuable.
It's one of the most valuable things,
is to surround yourself with positive,
healthy, friendly, generous people.
That's why I cut out them dealing for my life.
I broke up with them.
I thought you guys were getting married.
No, it's over.
It's none of those things.
The nonstop conspiracy theories,
the nonstop mocking of my Eastern European origins,
is just not healthy for me.
Plus, he's physically abusive and a towering figure,
both in motion and physically.
No, I love him.
If he worked out, he would be a house.
He's got such a large frame, you know?
So if I interview Putin, what should I ask him?
How's the cancer?
How's it doing, buddy?
That's question number one in Russian.
Do you think he has cancer?
I don't think so.
The narrative is terrifying, right?
Dictator of the largest nuclear arsenal in the world
who also has cancer and he just invaded a sovereign country.
That's a terrifying narrative.
Because that's what we're all afraid of.
Someone who has nothing to lose,
who just decides to let loose a nuke.
Well, I do think maybe it's projecting,
but if I had cancer or if you think about leaders
that have cancer, you're facing your own mortality,
I would think he would be more focused on his legacy.
And dropping nuclear bomb is not good for legacy.
I do believe he wants to be remembered as a great leader,
as a lot of leaders do, as a lot of even dictators do.
And I think he wants to figure out a way to pull out a win.
So he can say that whatever this thing was,
whatever this invasion was, was good for Russia,
was good for the nation.
He ultimately made it a greater nation than it was before.
And perhaps you could justify an escalation of war to be that.
But I don't, and it's just the cancer thing
that concerns me so much because it's been so often
part of this propaganda that's been told
about Putin that he's sick.
I don't know why, it's always,
people kind of wonder that a lot about, especially dictators,
but you had that even like with Hillary Clinton
and obviously with Biden, that narrative is stickier.
So for some people it's stickier.
Well, that narrative is transparent and obvious.
But the degree of it is a question with Biden
as it does with everyone.
Like how healthy is this leader?
That's a question people often ask.
Sure, always, they were doing that about Trump too.
The thing about Putin though is like his appearance
is altered, where he looks very bloated.
His body doesn't look much bigger,
but his face looks like puffy and swollen.
I had a friend who had a sarcoidosis
and they prescribed prednisone,
which is a type of a steroid.
And one of the things that would happen when he was on it
is his face would get really big.
It was like, he would blow up like a swell up
and maintain a lot of water and inflammation.
And that's what it looks like when I'm looking at Putin.
So actually, like if you're sitting with him,
one question is about health.
That's, has Biden been asked that kind of question?
No, like without mockery, without any of that.
He would have to go on Fox News.
Like the mainstream media treats him with kid gloves
in a way that I've never seen.
It's so obvious there's something horribly wrong
with his cognitive function.
Well, to push back, I don't know if it's horribly wrong.
You don't think it's horribly wrong?
I think it's, no, I think there's uncertainty
to which degree is wrong.
I would love to there to be a serious conversation
about it with him.
In fact, I actually have to now look,
cause of course Fox News will mock his declining mental health.
And then I would love like sort of an objective discussion.
Are you aware of this?
Are you like, what are you putting in place?
Are you yourself?
Cause if I was a person with the declining mental abilities,
like you have to start thinking about that kind of stuff.
Like who is around you?
Who are the advisors?
What if you start, stop being able to see the world clearly?
I would be transparent about that kind of stuff.
Well, you would be,
but you also would never be a politician.
Cause you're too fucking honest.
Well, yeah, but actually from a conversation perspective,
it would be nice if that kind of discussion was had.
It would be, but all jokes aside with Putin,
I would ask questions about democracy versus what they have.
I mean, without, without any disparaging descriptions
of what is going on over in Russia,
it's clearly not a democracy.
It's, they, I mean, the way he has it set up,
the elections are a joke.
He's,
So he would push back.
That's not clearly not a democracy.
He is still very popular.
So majority of people are huge supporters of Putin
inside Russia.
The people that push back against that would say that
that's because any serious opposition
is pushed out of the country.
Yeah.
So in case competition murdered.
But yes, that's a really, really good question.
The value of dictatorships.
One of the things about the United States
that's fascinating to me is that every four years,
unless it's a, it's four to eight years, right?
If someone does two terms,
but every four years there's an opportunity
for someone to be new and completely inexperienced
at the most difficult job in the world,
which is ridiculous.
So the interesting thing is it actually makes sense
after eight years, you've gained the wisdom.
You would actually be a pretty good leader to keep going.
But there is some problem where you,
the power gets started getting to your head.
Yeah.
And so like from Putin's perspective,
I think he genuinely wants the best for Russia.
I don't think he's lost his mind
in terms of like it's all about greed and so on.
Same as Stalin.
I think Stalin until the end of his days
wanted the best for the Soviet Union.
So it's not like you become,
Hitler I think lost his mind during the war.
Like where it was like he wasn't seeing clearly at all.
What Putin believes is that he is actually the best person
to bring out the best for his country.
Now the problem is maybe refreshing the leader
is in fact in the longterm the best thing
versus every leader believes they know
what's best for the country.
What point is to keep refreshing it?
Well.
And that's the case for democracy.
That's the case for the system we have
that creates natural maybe emergent balance of power.
I think it makes it evident
that there is no clear cut real right way to do it.
And that if you had the perfect person in
having them for 12, 20 years would be amazing.
If you had a perfect benevolent leader
who clearly only cared about the people
was doing their best and striving hard
and got great satisfaction
in knowing that he is a dedicated civil servant
that only wants to lead the country in a way
that's gonna benefit the most people
in the most profound way.
But we have a dirty political system.
It's completely corrupted by money,
completely corrupted by influence.
The fact that the lobbyists,
I mean there's an area outside of Washington DC
it's one of the richest areas in the country
and it's where the lobbyists live.
There's so much money involved in being a lobbyist.
There's so much money involved in special interest groups
and how much of an impact they have on who gets elected
and what decisions get made once that person gets elected.
We know this, right?
We know it's not for the people by the people.
It's just not what it is.
I mean this country is an experiment self government
and if we could do it all over again
I would say the most important thing
is to have laws in place to keep money out of politics
and to make it a heinous crime
for someone to influence laws
and policy based entirely
on the amount of profit it could generate for a party
or for a company that is investing in a candidate.
That's fucking incredibly dangerous and it's corrupt
and that corruption has been accepted.
We've just accepted that this corruption exists, you know?
Last question, if Putin asks to see this watch
what do I tell him?
Would you give it, should I let him see it?
Cause we know what happens with the Super Bowl ring.
I think a Super Bowl ring is unique.
He could buy a watch like that, pretty easy, you know?
But this particular, isn't that a power move?
Yeah, but no.
So this is the watch you gave me.
Yes.
There's a story.
I'll probably share it with him, the story.
And then maybe you go, look, can I see this watch?
Yeah.
And then he puts it on and says thank you.
Do you say no?
You go like this.
Yeah, there it is, bro.
Bro, take it off.
So many words I'm gonna have to find translation.
Buddy, bro, I guess bro is brother.
I mean, if he takes your watch, I'll buy you another one.
If Putin steals it, keep him going.
I'll just give you the same exact watch.
Well, first of all, thank you for this.
My pleasure, bro.
And I really wanted to talk to you
cause in a couple of days leaving to Ukraine and Russia
and I hope I'll be back in one piece
and drink whiskey with you once again.
Yeah, I hope so too.
I'm nervous about you going over there.
You know, I know journalists have been killed now.
It's, but they don't know Jiu Jitsu.
No, I think you'll be okay.
And I think there's certain things you do in life
that just kind of your heart pulls towards that so much.
What's your objective over there?
I'm not somebody who thinks about objectives clearly.
It's just something about me says I need to go there.
But to put in loose words
is to try to understand what that world is now.
So I remember what it was years ago when I was there.
I know my family,
I know the generations of family that was there
on that land in Ukraine and in Russia
and the soul of the people,
the love that's there, the beauty of the culture.
And I wanna see what it is today
and what this war has created,
both the anger and the love in the people
and just hear them out and just talk to them.
No recordings, none of that.
Maybe a little here and there,
but mostly just for me and to see.
I don't know, this sometimes is just,
something pulls you to a place.
And I also, because I'm able to speak Russian
and some Ukrainian, I do want to try to have these,
a couple of the political leaders involved talk to them.
And I have all the right connections.
Everybody has said, yes,
of course you don't know the likelihood it finally happens,
but I wanna at least have that possibility there.
You sometimes you have to go to a place
to really understand it.
You can't just read about it.
You can't just talk to the people that are living there.
You have to be there.
And I've never been in a war zone.
I've never been in a land that's been damaged
and wiped by the weapons of war.
And I just want to feel that
because so much of that land is,
I remember when everything was flourishing.
Yes, corruption, all those kinds of things,
but people were there and the culture was flourishing
and people were happy.
There was lots of struggle, but they were happy.
And now people are extremely angry.
There's hate in the air on all sides.
I wanna see that.
I wanna understand.
Sometimes it just pulls you and you have to go.
So it doesn't make any sense perhaps,
but you just gotta do it.
What's the timeline?
Of when I'm going.
How long?
No, one way.
I don't have a plan.
Wow.
Yeah.
So I'm hoping back in a month.
But also not just to clarify,
I'm not somebody who seeks risk.
And like you're somebody who seems to be terrified
of bears and sharks.
So you don't,
like so why go surfing, why go swimming in the ocean?
So I'm somebody that's the same, probably with sharks too.
I'm not taking unnecessary risk,
but certain things that just mean a lot to you,
you take the risk.
And so a little bit of risk willing to take
to discover something about myself.
Honestly, it's probably what all bull is down to,
try to understand myself.
Because so much of me is from that place.
Well, this is the beautiful thing about America
is it's like stitches together,
all these different cultures.
Everybody came from somewhere else.
Yeah.
And you try to understand,
in order for me to be a good American,
I need to understand who I was,
where I came from.
And that's nothing reveals the spirit of a people
better than war.
It's like there's something about this conflict
that's really cuts all the bullshit.
This is who we are.
This is who we are as a people.
So I want to see it, I want to understand.
And like I said, when I come back, drink some whiskey with you.
All right.
Well, I hope that happens.
I really do.
And I hope you're safe over there.
And I hope you come back with whatever insight
you're trying to achieve.
Thank you for doing this conversation.
My pleasure, brother.
Thank you for everything you've done for me,
for the support, for the love,
and everybody around you.
Thank you for everything you're doing
for everybody around you,
for giving back, but for just giving
and being kind to everybody.
I love you, brother.
I love you too.
Thank you.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Joe Rogan.
To support the podcast,
please check out our sponsors in the description.
And now let me leave you with one of Joe's
and one of my favorite quotes from Miyamoto Musashi.
Once you know the way broadly,
you will see it in everything.
Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.